In this lecture, we take a look at four loops.
So what are four loops or a loop in general is code that runs or loops multiple times.
For example, a loop can execute the same code five, ten, 100 or n times.
A full loop is useful when you know the number of times the code should execute.
For example, I want the statement Hallowell to be printed five times.
We can write the code so that the Foley will stop executing in the code.
After the fifth time.
Let's see an example.
So in Eclipse, I'm going to simply copy and paste the class in the last lecture.
And I'm going to call this one L ten for lecture ten and I'm going to give it a name of four loops like
so.
And I'm going to open up that new class.
So I'm going to simply delete the code from the last lecture that we don't need.
Like so.
So I'm going to write a four for loop and I'm going to do it inside the main method.
To write a for loop.
I'd use the key word for.
And then in brackets.
I'm going to write int I equals zero.
Semicolon.
I is less than ten.
I.
Plus.
Plus an an outside those brackets.
I'm going to add braces.
So let me explain what I'm doing here.
So I've used the four key word to define a four loop.
I've created a new integer.
Could I and assign an invaluable zero.
Then in the next.
So after the semicolon, the first semicolon, there's a condition.
So I'm checking the value of II to see if it's less than ten.
And in the third part of the fourth loop I'm using on a plus plus an AI plus plus the plus plus is an
increment symbol.
So it means it's going to increment the value of I.
Each time by one, every time the loop runs.
So inside this loop, I'm going to use a simple system.
Out thoughts.
Print out when.
And I'm going to type here on a message.
And at the end of those quotes, I'm also going to add a plus symbol and print out the value of I.
So if I save this now.
And try running it.
Let's see what happens.
So you can see that that loop has executed that code ten times.
And the reason for that is.
That way y equals zero cause it is condition.
So on the first two I'm on equals zero.
So I is less than ten.
I plus plus so increments at zero zero by one and it prints the message.
So in this time round I equals one.
Is I less than ten?
Yes, it is a plus plus.
So increase it again to two.
And it prints out its message and it keeps on going around in loops until this condition here is no
longer true.
So if I started with I equals ten here.
And I try running this code.
Let's see what happens.
And you see there's no message printed.
Because where I've signed the I value value of ten.
I is no longer.
Less than ten.
And because that condition isn't met.
This code here doesn't execute.
So that's the standard way how we write for loops.
And I recommend that you have some practice with this because for loops are very useful.
So I hope this was useful and you've learnt how to use for loops from this lecture and I look forward
to speaking to you in the next.